Now we'll continue with promises and talk about some more advanced concepts like promis chaining.
So our objectives will be to first describe the disadvantages of using nested callbacks return a promise
from a dad then callback function.
This is known as promise chaining and use a promise to make asynchronous Code seem sequential.
So essentially what we're doing in this last objective is refactoring the nested callback example we're
going to see to use processes which will lead to better more maintainable code.
Let's start out with an example that doesn't use promises.
So in this example you can see we've got kind of a messy situation.
We're trying to have a callback that depends on another callback.
So in this set time out we're going to log and counter and then once that's done we want to kick off
another set time out but once that's done so once we Inkerman our counter again and then display it
we want to kick off yet another set time out.
So the solution might come up with this point is to just continually put more callbacks inside of callbacks.
And this is just a small example but you can think of a problem that could end up having 10 or 12 levels
of nesting which is really really difficult to read.
So anyway this code when we run it will first print one and then two seconds later it'll print two and
then three seconds later it will print three.
So our consul will read one to and then three let's see that running in the consul.
So as you can see a second goes by and we print one two seconds go by and we print two and then three
seconds go by and we print three.
So we already talked about it a little bit but what's wrong with writing code this way.
Why is that bad.
Well first the code is hard to read in that small example you might be able to follow but once it gets
bigger and more complicated it gets really really difficult to understand what's going on.
Sort of in the same vein the logic is difficult to reason about.
So when code gets messy it gets hard to understand exactly what's going on.
And it really takes you a long time to sort of grasp what the code does.
And lastly the code is not very modular.
We'll see this more when we refactor the code.
But the real problem is there's a lot of duplication here but we don't really have a great way of putting
it into a separate function.
But once we use promises we'll see how to do that.
Before we can talk about refactoring this code we need to understand an important concept with promises
called promis chaining So promised chaining allows multiple dot then functions to be chained to a promise.
And the really neat thing is if a previous callback inside then returns a promise the next callback
inside that then we'll be waiting for that previous promise to be resolved.
So in this case we've got a promise that gets resolved in 500 milliseconds.
And this first then will be rate waiting for that promise to finish.
Now inside that callback we're returning a new promise that resolves in three seconds three or three
thousand milliseconds and the next thought then we'll be waiting for this promise to finish.
All right.
This is an important one so let's take a look at the cons. again
as you can see we've got our code here again.
And remember that this promise completes in half a second and this promise completes in three seconds
so let's take a look.
All right.
In half a second I see this from my first callback and then three seconds later I will see a second
random for my second callback.
Now let's change the values and see what we get after that.
So if I make this now three seconds and I make this one let's make it something quick like five hundred.
Half a second you'll see that this one takes three seconds to complete and then half a second later
we'll see this one
as you can see the first one now takes three seconds and half a second later we get the second.
So really cool feature we can combine asynchronous tasks into a chain of promises
promises aren't the only things that can return from inside of that then call back though a promised
callback can also return values.
So the values return in the previous then callback will be passed into the next then call back as a
parameter.
So here you can see or resolving with five.
And this first callback function will receive 5 as data and then will return five times 2 which is 10
which will be Passons the next then callback.
So now data is equal to 10 and 10 plus 20 gives us 30.
Now the next callback gets 30.
And finally will console log that 30.
So in the console we should see 30.
Now let's review our nested callback example from earlier.
Remember this set of callbacks will after a second console log one and then after two seconds console
log 2 and then finally after three seconds console log 3.
So how do we use promises to help solve this problem.
Well let's take it step by step.
First we're going to create a function definition for just the incrementing portion.
So this function.
All it does is takes in our counter increments it and then consol logs whatever the value of the counter
is.
Remember that's what's going on here.
Right we're just incrementing a counter and then cancel logon and that functionality is the same throughout
each callback next step number two.
So now we'll create a function called run later.
And this is a pretty generic function that will take a callback and a time in milliseconds and run that
callback using set time out.
But it will wrap the set time out in a promise.
So this run later function at the end will return a new promise that we can attach a dot then or a dot
catch call back to INSIDE OF THE PROMISE set.
Time out is invoked the callback runs after the delay.
After this time in milliseconds delay and the value return from this callback that's invoked inside
of the function is then passed to resolve.
So this will work with pretty much any callback function you want.
And the goal is to turn a normal set time outcall into a promise of file set timeout.
Step number three.
Now we're going to use the run later function and promise chaining that we learned earlier to refactor
the code that we had before.
So the first run later here will invoke this ink counter function in one second but remember run later
returns a promise.
So we can attach them to that promise.
This callback will be invoked after the i and see counters resolved and then we return a new promise
from on later which also invokes the counter in 2000 milliseconds.
Then the next dot then callback is invoked or turn a new promise which runs the agency counter in three
seconds 3000 milliseconds.
And finally this last thought then is necessary.
But if you wanted to put some final code there like console log something else you could.
So this is essentially inside the store then we'll know that the code is done.
Let's see this in the console.
So here's our code for the example.
And as you can see when this runs we'll have the same effects first one second counter.
Two seconds later or two and then three seconds later counter-theory.
So there you have it.
We've turned some pretty messy code from using nested callbacks into using promises.
And now I'd argue that this is much easier to read once you understand what promises and promise chaining
are doing here.
So here's the side by side of those two code snippets.
As you can see from this our solutions actually a little bit longer so we're not winning on number of
lines but once we have this run later function our actual code for the callbacks is quite short.
And I'd argue much more readable once you understand what run run later does than the implementation
here is much easier than this one.
One last thing I want to point out here which I think is useful when you're first learning.
So we've created a lot of new promises and all these examples but later on when you use promises especially
in Ajax you're not going to be creating a new promise yourself.
Rather you're going to be given a promise as a result of invoking some function specifically you're
going to be using the new fecche functionality and fetch will return a promise to you.
So even though you don't have to create your own promises it's useful to understand what they're doing
both resolve and reject.
So I hope that was helpful.